1. Who developed Python Programming Language?

Ans : Guido van Rossum.

2. Which type of Programming does Python support?

Ans : Object-oriented programming and Structured programming.

3. Is Python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers?

Ans : Yes, Python is case sensitive when dealing with identifiers.

4. What is the correct extension of the Python file?

Ans : .py

5. Is Python code compiled or interpreted?

Ans : Python code are interpreted.

6. Name a few blocks of code used to define in Python language?

Ans: Module, Function ,Class

7. State a character used to give single-line comments in Python?

Ans: #

8. Mention functions which can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on?

Ans: sys.version

9. Python supports the creation of anonymous functions at runtime, using a contruct called ________

Ans: lambda

10. What does pip stand for python?

Ans : preferred installer program

11. Mention a few built-in functions in python?

Ans: print(), input(), type(), max(), min(), sorted(), len()

12. What is the maximum possible length of an indentifier in Python?

Ans: 79

13. What are the benefits of using Python?

Ans: Data Science, Web Development ,Scientific and mathematical computing ,General and application-specific scripting

14. How is memory managed in Python?

Ans : private heap containing all Python objects and data structures

15. How to Install Python on Windows and set path variables?

Ans:

Method 1:

You can easily add Python to Windows path by downloading a recent version of Python, and then checking the box to Add Python to PATH at the bottom of the setup screen:

 Add Python to PATH

Finish the installation.

Method 2: Manually add Python to Windows Path

Press the Windows Key + R on your keyboard in order to open the Run dialog box

Type sysdm.cpl to open the System Properties

Go to the Advanced tab and then click on the Environment Variables

That should take you to the Environment Variables screen, where you can add/edit your paths.

Under the User variables box, click on New to add the Path variable (note that if your Path variable already exists, then click on Edit instead):

User variables
OneDrive
TEMP
TMP
                New    Edit

You should then see the New User Variable box, where you may add/edit variables:

Variable name:
Variable value:

The Python application path, which is the folder where you originally installed Python. You can find the Python application path by following these steps:

Type Python in the Windows Search Bar
Right-click on the Python App, and then select Open file location
Right-click again on the Python shortcut, and then select Open file location


C:\Users\abc\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Python 3.9

16 . Is indentation required in python

Ans : Yes , Indentation in Python is very important.
